Add kamailio Integration (#1611)
DataDog/integrations-extras: kamailio/README.md

   This setting is configured in the `kamailio.d/conf.yaml.example` file in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent Configuration Directory][12].  
   **If** you are using the BINRPC interface, you need to allow the `dd-agent` user to access your BINRPC interface.  
   The simplest way to do this is to use the pre-configured *sudoers* config bundled with this integration.  
   First, ensure `sudo` is installed on your system, then run the following command:

```shell
cp /opt/datadog-agent/embedded/lib/python*/site-packages/datadog_checks/kamailio/sudoers.d/dd-agent-kamcmd /etc/sudoers.d/
```

   **If** your Kamailio configuration does not load the `kex` module you need to enable the `get_modules_from_mmaps` parameter.  
   This setting is also located in the `kamailio.d/conf.yaml.example` configuration file.  
   You wil also need to allow the `dd-agent` user to read the loaded modules from memory.  
   Another pre-configured *sudoers* config bundled can handle this.  
   To do so run the following command:

```shell
cp /opt/datadog-agent/embedded/lib/python*/site-packages/datadog_checks/kamailio/sudoers.d/dd-agent-procmaps /etc/sudoers.d/
```

> 3. Now you can edit any optional parameters in `kamailio.d/conf.yaml.example` to suit your environement.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Edit any optional parameters in `kamailio.d/conf.yaml.example` to suit your environement.  
```

   Once complete, save the modified file as `kamailio.d/conf.yaml`.  
   See the [sample kamailio conf.yaml][7] for all available configuration options.

4. [Restart the Agent][8].

### Validation

Run the [Agent's `status` subcommand][9] and look for `kamailio` under the Running Checks section.

```shell
sudo -u dd-agent datadog-agent status
```

> Here is an example of what the output should look like when the installed succeeded: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of what the output should look like when the installation succeeds: 
```

```text
  Running Checks
  ==============

    kamailio (1.0.0)
    ----------------
      Instance ID: kamailio:c1229bbb6f8bedb9 [OK]
      Configuration Source: file:/etc/datadog-agent/conf.d/kamailio.d/conf.yaml
      Total Runs: 141
      Metric Samples: Last Run: 82, Total: 11,562
      Events: Last Run: 0, Total: 0
      Service Checks: Last Run: 2, Total: 282
      Average Execution Time : 19ms
      Last Execution Date : 2023-01-12 23:10:48 EST / 2023-01-13 04:10:48 UTC (1673583048000)
      Last Successful Execution Date : 2023-01-12 23:10:48 EST / 2023-01-13 04:10:48 UTC (1673583048000)
```

## Data Collected

> The data collected depends on what modules are loaded in your Kamailio configuration.  
> The intent is that all statistics that can help you better manage your system are forwarded for processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data collected depends on the modules loaded in your Kamailio configuration.  
Forward all statistics that can help you better manage your system for processing.
```

# Agent Check: kamailio

## Overview

> This check monitors [kamailio][1].

Author: resolved in cf85a7a2cd46cc4e6c399e639ff477102a24aead

## Setup

> ### Building

Author: resolved in cf85a7a2cd46cc4e6c399e639ff477102a24aead

1. Install the [Datadog Developer Toolkit][3].

2. Clone the `integrations-extras` repository:

```shell

> git clone https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras.git.

Author: resolved in cf85a7a2cd46cc4e6c399e639ff477102a24aead

```

3. Update your `ddev` config with the repo path:

```shell
cd integrations-extras/
ddev config set extras $(pwd)
```

4. Build the `datadog-kamailio` package:

```shell
ddev -e release build kamailio
```

> ### Installing

Author: resolved in cf85a7a2cd46cc4e6c399e639ff477102a24aead

> Once you built the package wheel, install it on a host:

Author: resolved in cf85a7a2cd46cc4e6c399e639ff477102a24aead

> 1. If the datadog agent is not installed yet [Install the Datadog Agent][2].

Author: resolved in cf85a7a2cd46cc4e6c399e639ff477102a24aead

2. Install the package:

```shell
chown dd-agent:dd-agent kamailio/dist/datadog_kamailio*.whl
sudo -u dd-agent datadog-agent integration install -w kamailio/dist/datadog_kamailio*.whl
```

### Configuration

1. Edit the config file `/etc/datadog-agent/conf.d/kamailio.d/conf.yaml.example` per your settings.  
   An example config can be found [here][7].  
   Save the modified file as `/etc/datadog-agent/conf.d/kamailio.d/conf.yaml`.

2. [Restart the Agent][8].

### Validation

> 1. Check the [agent status][9] and make sure `kamailio` is listed under the Checks section.

Author: resolved in resolved in 9b557b755e7c8cd700baac78164cd96643818001

## Data Collected

### Metrics

Currently all statistics produced from kamailio are forwarded to datadog.  
See the [kamailio modules][5] documentation for information on statistics produced by each module.    
To see what statistics your kamailio instance will produce run:

```shell
kamcmd stats.get_statistics all
```

> For more information see [metadata.csv][11] for an example of metrics that may be collected.

Author: resolved in 9b557b755e7c8cd700baac78164cd96643818001

### Service Checks

1. services_up - validates the kamailio services are running properly
2. metrics_up  - validates the metrics were sent to datadog successfully

> For more information see [service_checks.json][10] for the service check definitions. 

Author: resolved in cf85a7a2cd46cc4e6c399e639ff477102a24aead

### Events

> The kamailio agent does not include any events.

Author: resolved in cf85a7a2cd46cc4e6c399e639ff477102a24aead

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [dOpenSource][4].

[1]: https://www.kamailio.org/w/
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/integrations/new_check_howto/#developer-toolkit
[4]: https://dopensource.com/
[5]: https://kamailio.org/docs/modules/5.5.x/
[6]: https://www.kamailio.org/wiki/cookbooks/5.5.x/core#statistics
[7]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/kamailio/datadog_checks/kamailio/data/conf.yaml.example
[8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
[9]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#agent-status-and-information
[10]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/kamailio/assets/service_checks.json

> [11]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/kamailio/metadata.csv

Author: resolved in 9b557b755e7c8cd700baac78164cd96643818001
